README.md, before:

Gluggi
======

Modular layout system




Installation
------------

1. First install the bundle via composer:

    ```bash
    composer require becklyn/gluggi-bundle
    ```

2. Load the bundle in your `AppKernel`
3. Load the routing in your `routing.yml` or `routing_dev.yml`:

    ```yml
    layout:
        resource: "@GluggiBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
        prefix: /_layout/
    ```




Configuration
-------------

You can define several config values in your `app/config.yml`:


| Key            | Type       | Required | Description |
| -------------- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `css`          | `string[]` | no       | The CSS files that will automatically be loaded. All paths are namespaced (see `becklyn/assets-bundle`). |
| `js`           | `string[]` | no       | The JavaScript files that will automatically be loaded. All paths are namespaced (see `becklyn/assets-bundle`). |
| `js_head`      | `string[]` | no       | Like `js`, but the files will be included in the head. |
| `info_action`  | `string`   | no       | The action to render the info. See the section below for details. |
| `title`        | `string`   | no       | An optional title of the project, that is added in some places in the output (i.e. as suffix in the HTML title and on the index page). |
| `data`         | `array`    | no       | An array with arbitrary data. See below for details. |



### Default configuration

```yml
gluggi:
    info_action:  ~
    title: ~
    data: []
    css: []
    js: []
    js_head: []
```




Usage
-----

Create a `LayoutBundle` and load it in your `AppKernel`.

You can add your views in `LayoutBundle/Resources/views/{atom,molecule,organism,template,page}`.



### Including views in other views
Especially in views that include other subviews it is preferable to just import these subviews, instead of copy & pasting them through the layout project.

Gluggi contains a simple twig function that includes a component:

```jinja
<div class="wrapper">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "example")
</div>
```

The function has three parameters: `gluggi(type, name [, templateContext])`

| Argument          | Type               | Description                                                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`            | `string`           | the type of the component, like `"atom"`, `"molecule"`, etc.. |
| `name`            | `string`           | the name of the component (the filename with extension)       |
| `templateContext` | `array` (optional) | the variables that are available in the templates             |

> To keep your templates as minimal and clean as possible, you should always use `{{ gluggi() }}` instead of the twig-own `{{ include () }}` and `{% include "..." %}`.


#### Embedding other views

You can also embed other components in the current component, to extend and change some block contents. Use the `gluggi_template(type, name)` in the `embed` tag.

```jinja
{% embed gluggi_template("atom", "example") with {a: 1, b: 2} %}
    {% block some_block %}
        More content.
    {% endblock %}
{% endembed %}
```


The function has two parameters: `gluggi_template(type, name)`

| Argument | Type     | Description                                                   |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | `string` | the type of the component, like `"atom"`, `"molecule"`, etc.. |
| `name`   | `string` | the name of the component (the filename with extension)       |

### Template variables
Components can use variables (just like any other Twig template).
All templates need to work standalone, so the value of the variable must be defined in the template via `{% set variable = ... %}`.

To allow overwriting certain values, the [`|default(...)` filter from Twig](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/filters/default.html) can be used. If the component is included in another template, the variables can be changed.


`atom/list.html.twig`:
```jinja
<ul>
    {% for i in 1 .. entries|default(3) %}
    <li>Entry #{{ i }}</li>
    {% endfor %}
</ul>
```

`molecule/long-list.html.twig`:
```jinja
<div class="long-list">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "list", {entries: 10}) }
</div>
```



### Predefined template variables

This is list of predefined variables:

| Name         | Type   | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `standalone` | `bool` | Defines, whether the component is previewed standalone or embedded in another component. Defaults to `false` in any `gluggi()` embed, `true` otherwise. |

You can overwrite predefined values in included templates, by passing an explicit value as template parameter:
```jinja
{{ gluggi("atom", "example", {standalone: true}) }}
```



#### `standalone`
The purpose of this variable is to provide an indicator whether the component is previewed in isolation or embedded in another template.
This is for example important if a component receives its actual width from the parent.


`atom/example.html.twig`:
```jinja
{% if standalone %}<div style="width: 800px;">{% endif %}

    <div class="example">
        {# ... #}
    </div>

{% if standalone %}</div>{% endif %}
```

`molecule/product.html.twig`:
```jinja
{# here the width is defined on the product, so the helper <div> shouldn't be in the output #}
<div class="product">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "example") }} {# includes with standalone = false by default #}
</div>
```



### Using assets in views

#### Referenced assets
Place your images under `Resources/public/img` (just as in any other Symfony bundle) and reference the image in your SCSS file via `url("../img/...")`.


#### Inline assets
Load the assets directly from the bundle via `becklyn/asset-bundle`'s `asset()` function:

```jinja
<!-- Resources/views/atom/example.html.twig -->

<div class="example">
    <img src="{{ asset("@app/img/example.jpg") }}" alt="Example Image">
</div>
```


#### Separating content and layout assets
In a regular layout project, there are some assets that are required for the layout to function (like logos, background images, etc...). And there are content images, that act
as placeholders in the layout previews.

It is recommended to separate the two images into two directories:

* `Resources/public/img` for layout assets
* `Resources/public/content` for content placeholder assets



### Styling helpers
There is a styling helper for usage in your layout views.
It adds a top margin on every direct child element, except the first child. Use it like this:


```html
<div class="gluggi-variations">
    <!-- First component -->
    <!-- Second component -->
    <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

If the component itself should not get a top margin, wrap the components in a single div:

```html
<div class="gluggi-variations">
    <div><!-- First component --></div>
    <div><!-- Second component --></div>
    <!-- ... -->
</div>
```


### Template Configuration
You can define configuration parameters in the template, for example setting the body class for a `page` component.

Template configuration is defined with a twig comment as the first element in the template:

```twig
{#-
    # the indention is automatically removed
    some_configuration: test
    another_value: a
-#}
```

The configuration format is YML. All configuration parameters are optional.


#### Defined configuration parameters


| Parameter      | type     | in                    | description                                          |
| -------------- | -------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `body_class`   | `string` | (*any isolated view*) | Sets the given class on the body.                    |
| `prevent_zoom` | `bool`   | (*any isolated view*) | Sets the `viewport` meta tag to prevent mobile zoom. |



### Index Info

The main app can embed arbitrary HTML into the index page. This will be added on the right side, next to the list of components. Just define a controller action in the configuration, and the returned HTML is embedded in the page. If the returned HTML is empty, the info container will be hidden.

```yaml
gluggi:
    info_action: "SomeBundle:Test:gluggiInfo"
```

This will call `SomeBundle\Controller\TestController::gluggiInfo()`. This configuration option uses `{{ render(controller("...")) }}` internally, so every syntax that is accepted by this call, will be accepted by Gluggi as well.




### Template Data

You can define global data, that is accessible in all component templates.

```yaml
gluggi:
    data:
        key1: abc
        key2: 123
        icons:
            - "add"
            - "remove"
            - "search"
```

This data can be accessed in the templates via `{{ gluggi_data(key) }}`.

So for example:

```twig
{% for icon in gluggi_data("icons") %}
    <i class="icon icon-{{ icon }}"></i>
{% endfor %}

```

To ease fast debugging, the twig function will throw an exception, if the key is not defined in the data array.

Commit message:

Rename .yaml files and update kernel

README.md, after:

Gluggi
======

Modular layout system




Installation
------------

1. First install the bundle via composer:

    ```bash
    composer require becklyn/gluggi-bundle
    ```

2. Load the bundle in your `AppKernel`
3. Load the routing in your `routing.yaml` or `routing_dev.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    layout:
        resource: "@GluggiBundle/Resources/config/routing.yaml"
        prefix: /_layout/
    ```




Configuration
-------------

You can define several config values in your `app/config.yaml`:


| Key            | Type       | Required | Description |
| -------------- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `css`          | `string[]` | no       | The CSS files that will automatically be loaded. All paths are namespaced (see `becklyn/assets-bundle`). |
| `js`           | `string[]` | no       | The JavaScript files that will automatically be loaded. All paths are namespaced (see `becklyn/assets-bundle`). |
| `js_head`      | `string[]` | no       | Like `js`, but the files will be included in the head. |
| `info_action`  | `string`   | no       | The action to render the info. See the section below for details. |
| `title`        | `string`   | no       | An optional title of the project, that is added in some places in the output (i.e. as suffix in the HTML title and on the index page). |
| `data`         | `array`    | no       | An array with arbitrary data. See below for details. |



### Default configuration

```yaml
gluggi:
    info_action:  ~
    title: ~
    data: []
    css: []
    js: []
    js_head: []
```




Usage
-----

Create a `LayoutBundle` and load it in your `AppKernel`.

You can add your views in `LayoutBundle/Resources/views/{atom,molecule,organism,template,page}`.



### Including views in other views
Especially in views that include other subviews it is preferable to just import these subviews, instead of copy & pasting them through the layout project.

Gluggi contains a simple twig function that includes a component:

```jinja
<div class="wrapper">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "example")
</div>
```

The function has three parameters: `gluggi(type, name [, templateContext])`

| Argument          | Type               | Description                                                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`            | `string`           | the type of the component, like `"atom"`, `"molecule"`, etc.. |
| `name`            | `string`           | the name of the component (the filename with extension)       |
| `templateContext` | `array` (optional) | the variables that are available in the templates             |

> To keep your templates as minimal and clean as possible, you should always use `{{ gluggi() }}` instead of the twig-own `{{ include () }}` and `{% include "..." %}`.


#### Embedding other views

You can also embed other components in the current component, to extend and change some block contents. Use the `gluggi_template(type, name)` in the `embed` tag.

```jinja
{% embed gluggi_template("atom", "example") with {a: 1, b: 2} %}
    {% block some_block %}
        More content.
    {% endblock %}
{% endembed %}
```


The function has two parameters: `gluggi_template(type, name)`

| Argument | Type     | Description                                                   |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`   | `string` | the type of the component, like `"atom"`, `"molecule"`, etc.. |
| `name`   | `string` | the name of the component (the filename with extension)       |

### Template variables
Components can use variables (just like any other Twig template).
All templates need to work standalone, so the value of the variable must be defined in the template via `{% set variable = ... %}`.

To allow overwriting certain values, the [`|default(...)` filter from Twig](http://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/filters/default.html) can be used. If the component is included in another template, the variables can be changed.


`atom/list.html.twig`:
```jinja
<ul>
    {% for i in 1 .. entries|default(3) %}
    <li>Entry #{{ i }}</li>
    {% endfor %}
</ul>
```

`molecule/long-list.html.twig`:
```jinja
<div class="long-list">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "list", {entries: 10}) }
</div>
```



### Predefined template variables

This is list of predefined variables:

| Name         | Type   | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `standalone` | `bool` | Defines, whether the component is previewed standalone or embedded in another component. Defaults to `false` in any `gluggi()` embed, `true` otherwise. |

You can overwrite predefined values in included templates, by passing an explicit value as template parameter:
```jinja
{{ gluggi("atom", "example", {standalone: true}) }}
```



#### `standalone`
The purpose of this variable is to provide an indicator whether the component is previewed in isolation or embedded in another template.
This is for example important if a component receives its actual width from the parent.


`atom/example.html.twig`:
```jinja
{% if standalone %}<div style="width: 800px;">{% endif %}

    <div class="example">
        {# ... #}
    </div>

{% if standalone %}</div>{% endif %}
```

`molecule/product.html.twig`:
```jinja
{# here the width is defined on the product, so the helper <div> shouldn't be in the output #}
<div class="product">
    {{ gluggi("atom", "example") }} {# includes with standalone = false by default #}
</div>
```



### Using assets in views

#### Referenced assets
Place your images under `Resources/public/img` (just as in any other Symfony bundle) and reference the image in your SCSS file via `url("../img/...")`.


#### Inline assets
Load the assets directly from the bundle via `becklyn/asset-bundle`'s `asset()` function:

```jinja
<!-- Resources/views/atom/example.html.twig -->

<div class="example">
    <img src="{{ asset("@app/img/example.jpg") }}" alt="Example Image">
</div>
```


#### Separating content and layout assets
In a regular layout project, there are some assets that are required for the layout to function (like logos, background images, etc...). And there are content images, that act
as placeholders in the layout previews.

It is recommended to separate the two images into two directories:

* `Resources/public/img` for layout assets
* `Resources/public/content` for content placeholder assets



### Styling helpers
There is a styling helper for usage in your layout views.
It adds a top margin on every direct child element, except the first child. Use it like this:


```html
<div class="gluggi-variations">
    <!-- First component -->
    <!-- Second component -->
    <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

If the component itself should not get a top margin, wrap the components in a single div:

```html
<div class="gluggi-variations">
    <div><!-- First component --></div>
    <div><!-- Second component --></div>
    <!-- ... -->
</div>
```


### Template Configuration
You can define configuration parameters in the template, for example setting the body class for a `page` component.

Template configuration is defined with a twig comment as the first element in the template:

```twig
{#-
    # the indention is automatically removed
    some_configuration: test
    another_value: a
-#}
```

The configuration format is YAML. All configuration parameters are optional.


#### Defined configuration parameters


| Parameter      | type     | in                    | description                                          |
| -------------- | -------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `body_class`   | `string` | (*any isolated view*) | Sets the given class on the body.                    |
| `prevent_zoom` | `bool`   | (*any isolated view*) | Sets the `viewport` meta tag to prevent mobile zoom. |



### Index Info

The main app can embed arbitrary HTML into the index page. This will be added on the right side, next to the list of components. Just define a controller action in the configuration, and the returned HTML is embedded in the page. If the returned HTML is empty, the info container will be hidden.

```yaml
gluggi:
    info_action: "SomeBundle:Test:gluggiInfo"
```

This will call `SomeBundle\Controller\TestController::gluggiInfo()`. This configuration option uses `{{ render(controller("...")) }}` internally, so every syntax that is accepted by this call, will be accepted by Gluggi as well.




### Template Data

You can define global data, that is accessible in all component templates.

```yaml
gluggi:
    data:
        key1: abc
        key2: 123
        icons:
            - "add"
            - "remove"
            - "search"
```

This data can be accessed in the templates via `{{ gluggi_data(key) }}`.

So for example:

```twig
{% for icon in gluggi_data("icons") %}
    <i class="icon icon-{{ icon }}"></i>
{% endfor %}

```

To ease fast debugging, the twig function will throw an exception, if the key is not defined in the data array.
